Welcome to a new JW Broadcasting Monthly program.
Here are some of the highlights for this month.
Have you ever felt frustrated with other people?
I know I have, and I'm sure you have too.
This dramatization will provide reminders on what we can do to improve our Christian personality.
Next, what is done by our brothers and congregations worldwide
to assist those who are housebound or are physically limited in other ways?
We have some encouraging experiences to share.
Also on March 23rd, millions will gather to commemorate the death of Jesus Christ.
Perhaps some of you have been given the privilege to prepare the bread for the memorial.
What is the proper way to make the bread?
You will find out in this instructional video.
This is the March program of JW Broadcasting.
It's good to be alive and served Jehovah in these exciting times.
Don't you agree?
There seems to be no end of new things happening in Jehovah's organization.
Wherever we look, we see more and more improvements and refinements being made.
For example, we have changes in the format of our meetings and conventions
with video presentations.
The way we carry out our preaching work with the addition of metropolitan witnessing and the use of witnessing cuts.
Our new understanding of Bible teachings, especially with regard to the events that lie ahead of us in the Great Tribulation.
Just a few years ago, Hoover's could have envisioned what has been happening in recent months.
Who would have thought that we would have her own broadcasting station via the Internet
or that we would make our literature available in some 800 languages?
Truly, the celestial chariot with Jehovah and the driver's seat is charging ahead at full speed.
But how do you feel about all of this?
For me personally, I reflect on the joy I feel at the end of each convention,
whether it's a regional convention or an international one.
Usually our hearts are filled to the brim and overflowing with joy and appreciation, aren't they?
Our feelings of joy echo the words of the Psalmist as recorded at Psalm 144, verse 15.
There it says, Happy is the people for whom it is this way.
Happy is the people whose God is Jehovah.
But realistically, we have to admit that those feelings of joy and exhilaration do not always last.
It usually is a shock when we go home and have to face the realities of living in this week at Old World.
As second Timothy, three one clearly states, these are critical times hard to deal with.
So we should be surprised if at times we find it hard to maintain a positive attitude.
We may feel down, discouraged, disheartened and even overwhelmed by what we have to deal with.
What can help us to maintain a positive viewpoint under such circumstances?
Well, there are many things.
To start with, let's consider briefly three scriptures.
The first one is in Psalm 16, verse 11.
You make known to me the path of life.
In your presence is abundant joy.
There is happiness at your right hand forever.
What is the lesson for us?
Count your blessings.
Now the second scripture is Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 25.
There it tells us your eyes should look straight ahead.
Yes, fix your gaze straight ahead of you.
What is the point of this verse?
Look to the future hope.
See the bigger picture.
The third scripture is Ecclesiastes 4 and verse 6.
There we read,
better is a handful of rest than two handfuls of hard work and chasing after the wind.
So what do we need to remember?
Get enough rest.
We need to be careful not to allow too much TV watching or surfing the internet
to rob us of necessary rest and sleep.
Now these are just three of many things we need to keep in mind.
Another way to stay positive involves reading accounts recorded in the Bible.
When we look to the biblical record,
we can't help but be encouraged by the fact that the prophets of old
had similar feelings to ours.
They were people just like us.
For example, let's read what James was inspired to say about the prophet Elijah.
This is recorded for us at James 5, verse 17,
where it says Elijah was a man with feelings like ours.
James goes on to show how prayer was of tremendous hope to Elijah
and he can likewise assist us.
But what else do we learn from Elijah's example?
Remember our dramatic Bible reading that helped us relive the exciting events
of the time when Elijah challenged the false prophets of Baal
and Jehovah proved that he is the only true God?
Can you imagine how faith strengthening it would have been to see fire
actually come out of heaven and devour the sacrifice?
What about the expressions on the faces of those false prophets?
How would you have felt if you were Elijah?
Then what happened next?
The three-and-a-half year-long drought broke with a heavy downfall.
Once again proving that Jehovah is the true God and that Elijah was his prophet.
Finally, Elijah outruns Ahab's chariot,
running the 19 miles or 30 kilometers from Mount Carmel to Jezreal.
If you were Elijah, do you think that you would have been on an emotional high?
Your level of faith would have been at a peak.
Perhaps similar to how you feel at the end of an international convention.
Remember though what happened next?
The account at first Kings 19, 3 and 4 tells us
that he became afraid, so he got up and ran for his life.
He came to be a sheba which belongs to Judah and he left his attendant there.
He went a days journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree.
And he asked that he might die.
He said, it is enough.
Now of Jehovah take my life away.
But I am no better than my forefathers.
But why was Elijah now so discouraged?
Notice what he said is recorded at first Kings 19 and verse 14.
I have been absolutely zealous for Jehovah the God of armies,
for the people of Israel have forsaken your covenant,
your alters they have torn down and your prophets they have killed with the sword,
and I am the only one left.
Now they are seeking to take my life away.
Do you sometimes feel that way?
Woe is me.
I am the only one facing this type of problem.
Nobody understands what I am going through.
Well that thinking can undermine our positive attitude.
But what did Jehovah remind Elijah of?
Notice the three things listed at first Kings 19, 15 through 18.
The first point, Jehovah told him that the problem was going to be solved.
He was to anoint Jehu.
The second point, Jehovah promised him help in the form of Elijah.
And the third point, Jehovah also informed him that he wasn't the only one.
There were at least 7,000 others.
We can be sure that Jehovah cares for us, just as he cared for Elijah.
Let's read about this in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verses 6 and 7.
humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God,
so that he may exalt you in due time, while you throw all your anxiety on him,
because he cares for you.
Yes, Jehovah cares for us and helps us when we are discouraged,
just as he did for Elijah.
When I look back over the years, I remember things that discouraged me and made me feel low.
What were some of those difficult moments in my life?
Well, I remember the time when, as a missionary, I nearly died of typhoid fever.
I also remember supporting and caring for my first wife, Jenny,
during her 10-year battle with breast cancer.
Then also losing the sight of my left eye because of melanoma, a form of cancer.
Losing close friends and deaths, including Jenny,
sometimes one after the other in close succession.
As a missionary, I had feelings of isolation,
and then of course the frustration that comes because of my own mistakes and weaknesses,
and trying to find a balance between what I want to do and what I can actually do.
All those things have at times discouraged me,
and I know that many of you have faced far worse challenges.
But what can help us when we are overwhelmed by problems?
Well, in addition to all the things that we've already discussed,
we can find comfort in the words found at 1st Peter, chapter 5, verses 9 and 10.
But take your stand against him, that is the devil, firm in the faith,
knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced
by the entire association of your brothers in the world.
But after you have suffered a little while,
the God of all underserved kindness, who called you to his everlasting glory and union with Christ,
will himself finish your training.
He will make you firm, he will make you strong, he will firmly ground you.
Yes, it's a wonderful encouragement to know that we're not alone.
Many of our brothers and sisters have faced similar problems and have been able to cope successfully.
As in Elijah's case, it is as if we're surrounded by a figurative 7,000
who are serving Jehovah along with us.
But like Elijah, perhaps at times we might forget these faithful ones.
So what do we need to do?
Get to know them!
Ask them questions!
We may be surprised by how encouraging their answers are.
We may in fact discover a whole new resource to encourage and strengthen us.
During this program, I'm going to introduce you to some of the brothers and sisters
with whom I have the privilege of working.
And I'm going to ask them what has helped them to cope with life's challenges and discouragements.
Perhaps you too can do the same with the brothers and sisters in your congregation or in your circuit.
Now I'd like to introduce to you two of my friends with whom I work closely here in Brooklyn,
Isaac and Gene Murray.
It's nice to have you both along here.
Now, originally, Sucky and Gene were from South Africa, but they were assigned to the United States back in 1981.
Sucky, can we ask you, first of all, what are some of the challenges that you and Gene have faced in your life?
We have faced a number of challenges.
Two that come to mind is changing continents, going to live in another continent.
And when Gene was diagnosed with cancer about 10 years ago.
Well, they sound like difficult challenges.
Let's just start with that first one.
Why was it difficult for you to move from South Africa to the United States?
Well, on the surface, it may sound like a simple matter.
But when you deal with cultural issues and you take into consideration your own imperfection, flaws, lack of experience,
it can become very challenging.
Looking back, it wasn't all that difficult.
But in the process, we learn some wonderful lessons.
What would you mind telling this a few of those lessons that you learned?
Well, we know Jehovah's chariot is on the move, but Jehovah does not deal with these people in mass.
We do not behave like an army.
We dress the same, walk the same, go through the same routines, boot camp, demanding every last drop of blood.
No, Jehovah deals with us very kindly and individually, personally.
He deals with all the issues of the universe.
At the same time, he deals with us as individuals.
Makes us think of the Israelites when they came out of Egypt and went through the Red Sea.
There were Jehovah's people, millions of them, older people, babies, young people.
Bearing down on them was the military machine of Egypt.
Yet, Jehovah took every single one of them safely through the Red Sea.
Jehovah cares not only on an objective level, but personally.
He is like a loving father.
He is interested in our fears, our feelings of inadequacy or inability.
At the same time, though, he listens very carefully to us.
Are we willing to obey?
Are we willing to learn? Are we willing to listen to him?
And it matters to him very, very much.
The bottom line is this.
Jehovah God gives us the privilege to be able to say, he is our friend.
And for imperfect people, that is the greatest achievement.
To be able to say, Jehovah is my friend.
Copying with our own imperfections is one thing.
But, coping with life-threatening situations can be very difficult.
Well, we appreciate very much those excellent lessons you referred to.
But it seems that you are talking now about gene situations.
Jean, could we just ask you, when you were diagnosed with having cancer,
how did you feel and how were you able to cope with that?
Well, it was a shock. I have to be quite frank about that.
And the treatments that followed were very harsh, so it made life difficult.
And I really came face to face with my own mortality.
But what helped me were two things.
And the first was the love and care of my brothers and sisters.
I felt as if they helped me, they supported me.
And as if Jehovah was using them to assure me that he loved me.
Almost like he was giving me a hug through them.
That's how I really felt.
And the second thing that helped me a lot was thinking about the men and women in the Bible.
Because life for them was not easy.
It was challenging.
But through all their trials, they managed to grow, they managed to improve on their relationship with Jehovah.
And I especially loved the example of Jehovah.
Because he went through trials, many, many trials, that much more than I ever faced.
But at the end of all his trials, he said something interesting.
May I read it?
Please, we'd love to hear it.
This is in Job 42 verse 5.
It says, My ears have heard about you, but now I do see you with my eyes.
And Job said these words, I see you with my eyes, when he was in this physical state of sickness
and Jehovah hadn't cured him yet.
And yet he was able to move his focus from himself onto Jehovah and onto his sovereignty.
He realized it wasn't all about him, it was about Jehovah's sovereignty.
And honestly, that's a lesson I needed to learn.
I had to learn, it's not just all about me, it's about Jehovah's will and Jehovah's sovereignty.
And in addition to all these trials and learning that lesson, it's really an opportunity to grow.
And the opportunity to be trained by Jehovah and opportunity to be corrected by him.
And yet I knew if I really loved Jehovah, I really loved him, he will never abandon me.
Well, those comments are so beautiful.
Thank you so much for being willing to share those personal insights and to help us with those lessons.
Well, we've really appreciated hearing that experience, haven't we?
A second Corinthians 6 verse 13 says,
it's good for us to open our hearts wide or widen out in our affections for our brothers and sisters.
We really need one another, especially in these difficult times.
In no way do we want our love for our brothers to be restricted somehow.
There are many ways that we can display this aspect of our Christian personality.
One way is by assisting those in our congregations who perhaps are housebound.
The following experiences will highlight how being shown loving kindness has proven to some that although they're isolated, they are not forgotten.
My friends and I decided to go swimming at a lake.
But when I dove in, I ended up hitting my head at the bottom of the lake.
I hurt my fourth and fifth vertebrae and ended up becoming tetraplegic.
In July 1989, I suffered a stroke and my life changed completely.
I was a normal person, but with this stroke came its after effect.
I can't get around without help.
In 2009, my dad started to notice muscle weakness.
After going to a few orthopedic doctors, because he thought it might be an orthopedic issue like a back problem or not walking correctly.
He was finally referred to a neurologist.
After two long years researching his illness, the neurologist diagnosed him with amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS.
I found out about the diagnosis along with the rest of my family and it was devastating to learn that his illness is progressive, degenerative and ultimately fatal.
What did we do to survive?
Jehovah doesn't forget what we do for him.
And I feel that Jehovah is always present in my life.
Right now, I have some privileges in the congregation.
I'm a ministerial servant and I've received a few assignments.
The brothers are really encouraged by Fernando.
Because even though he faces some difficulties, he makes an effort to attend the meetings and give talks.
A brother made a stand for Fernando's computer so that even lying in his bed, he can access JW.org.
He can also do his research and various other jobs to fill his time.
A tablet holder was also made for him to use with his wheelchair.
I feel really grateful for the brother's help.
They're always interested in knowing how I am.
They're always trying to help me when I need it.
They don't just say they'll help, but they try to live up to their promises.
We start to feel Jehovah's presence in his help.
And it's really worth having this help.
The various challenges and problems Marley faces in her life,
she has all the reasons in the world to feel sorry for herself.
But she doesn't.
She helps others in a practical way, especially the young ones.
I didn't know how to do telephone witnessing.
I'd never done it before, but Marley taught me how to witness over the phone.
She was able to help me learn a new type of witnessing.
It was very difficult for me to attend the meetings.
So the congregation set up an internet connection.
And it's been a gift from Jehovah.
So I'm able to watch the meetings on the computer.
Jehovah is extremely good. He really cares for us.
He is the God of all comfort.
And in all this time, Jehovah has never stopped helping my family.
Rather Miru is still an act of publisher in the congregation.
He continues to witness to his nurses.
How does he do it?
Every month, his wife receives the publications, shows him all the articles.
And then, during the week, he talks to the nurses.
To be honest, he listens to their problems.
So how does he manage to witness to them?
He blinks at his wife.
And he remembers the subject that he had discussed with the nurse.
And he blinks to point out which publication should be given to the nurse.
At the end of the month, his wife writes down how much time was spent talking
and which publication was left.
We've also made arrangements to record the meetings and take them to Miru.
Jehovah gives us strength by means of our brothers and sisters,
by means of friends who know about our struggles.
The brothers in the congregation got together
and did small repair jobs around the house.
So it's to improve his quality of life.
At that point, he was still able to speak and very lucid.
And he was really grateful for these arrangements made by the brothers in the congregation.
Loving brothers were willing to spend weeks helping out around the house.
Sometimes I feel isolated, but not forgotten.
It's worth putting up with everything we face.
We have a wonderful hope, which is something we should never forget.
And we feel like Jehovah literally carries us in his arms.
What a good reminder for each of us to think about what we can do to help those
who are not able to attend our meetings physically.
Now I'd like to introduce to you two of my close friends, Peter and Sue Schultz.
Like me, they're originally from Australia
and now we work together at Brooklyn at the World Headquarters.
Peter, as you realize, we've been talking about the matter of keeping
and maintaining a positive attitude.
I know that quite a number of years ago, you and Sue and other members of your congregation
went through a traumatic experience.
Would you mind just briefly telling us a little bit about it?
Yes, Jeff, we have to go back to Sunday, July 21, 1985.
Our congregation was meeting that morning for the public talk in Sydney, Australia.
And during the public talk, there was a massive explosion in the Kingdom Hall.
We learned later that a bomb had been placed underneath the platform
and it went off just a few feet from where the speaker was standing.
Unbelievably, he survived.
But when the police arrived and to their credit they got there very quickly,
they expected to find a Kingdom Hall full of dead bodies.
But there was only the one death, a brother and very dear friend who was sitting with his family just on our left.
When the dust and debris had settles sufficiently,
I actually was looking for my wife. She disappeared.
And then I saw her boot sticking out from underneath a large ceiling bat
that had fallen to the floor.
And so I put it aside and was shocked when I looked at her face.
Obviously something very solid had hit her square in the middle of this area of the face
and knocked her in her chair over backwards.
So this whole area was very badly damaged.
The upper lip was severed right across and it was hanging down on her chin.
And there was a gouge of flesh taken out of her left biceps.
On the positive side, I was reassured to see that there wasn't much bleeding.
But I learned later that I was mistaken. She actually bled heavily down into a stomach.
So I ended up being taken to a trauma center in one hospital in Sydney.
I was sent to another hospital and he had to stay overnight because doctors had to operate on his arm.
Of course, the very next morning I was eager to get to Sue.
So the hospital released me that morning and I went over to the hospital where Susie was staying.
And when I found her, Jeff, I wouldn't have recognised her face and swollen up like a melon.
And her eyelashes, not just her eyes, but her eyelashes were buried in swollen tissue
where her eyes should be, were just two lines across her face.
Of course, she couldn't see a thing which I...
As she went under the circumstances might have been a blessing.
Well, just from what you inferred there, wondering was there an issue with the blood?
But you mentioned it was bleeding.
The blood issue came up immediately when they realised that there was a lot of bleeding.
Whatever it hit me, artery behind the nose had either burst or been punctured.
We're not sure which.
And so the blood was running down into my stomach all that time.
So, of course, the hemoglobin dropped right down. It was about six.
So the surgeon that was assigned to me, he said, well, yes, he would do the operation to get the bones reset and all that.
But only if I would give him the option to use blood.
So that was...
We tried to reason with him for many days.
Peter especially had quite a few sessions with him.
But it ended up, he finally said, I'm not doing the operation.
So at that time, it was about now 10 or 11 days.
And for me, it was becoming critical for the face.
Even though all the stitching was done immediately, and that was healing up nicely.
But the bones were in the wrong places, and now they were starting to set.
You know, they needed to be put back in place.
So at that time, I think there were no hospital liaison, or no hospital liaison arrangement.
Peter and I felt like a couple of little duckies trying to go through uncharted waters.
We just didn't know literally where to put our foot next, which door to knock on next.
It was stressful, wasn't it, love that?
Yes, it was like we were walking toward a huge brick wall with no way around.
No way to get past this thing.
And we begged Jehovah, what do we do?
How do we deal with this situation?
Because we had no idea.
Anyway, just as, and knows as about to hit the wall, so to speak, a door open.
A brother who was a general practitioner had got in touch with a plastic surgeon who said
he'd take a look at Sue and he did.
Yes, completely different attitude.
He said, yes, I'm prepared to do this.
But I'll use a different procedure.
And he felt that procedure, he would not even, you know, blood wouldn't even be an issue.
But he did say, I want to make sure you're him a globe and must be nine before I'm prepared to do this.
Well, for many days already, we had been working on getting, you know, my blood up,
or my blood in better condition, because we were trying to cooperate with the hospital staff
and the previous doctor as much as we could.
So dear friends at Bethel, each day they were using vegetable juices full of iron
and every night bringing them up.
And we'd hear the bottles rattling down the corridor, wouldn't we?
And we'd say he comes to jungle juice.
So down the straw it went.
And when I had the blood test, the hemoglobin had already gone through nine.
We were very happy.
So the surgeon went ahead and wiped up my jaw and put the frame, the little scaffolding on
and I was good to get healed.
But we're so happy that that was successful.
But does that mean you haven't had any other problems afterwards?
Well, like a car that's been dinged, there's a few rattles right?
So my sense of smell couldn't be restored.
I had to have eardrum graphs.
I wish they would grow back.
I said, Peter's grew back and I said, how come yours grew back?
But anyway, I had them surgery put in.
Severe headaches were the problem I found for many years after the bomb.
But I think one of the things that wears on your nerves the most,
and I'm sure a lot of the brothers and sisters who went through the bombing,
either experienced it or even still do, and that's the tinnitus,
the constant ringing buzzing in your ears.
And that hasn't stopped since the bombing.
So in the new system, we'll be the ones sitting out in the paddock listening to silence.
Well, thanks for explaining all that.
But now, Peter, you mentioned too that beyond the physical problems that you were dealing with,
there were some other issues you had to handle.
Yes.
You could say we both suffered from what I assume was post-traumatic stress,
and nerves had taken a real beating,
and we were both emotionally exhausted from the whole ordeal,
seeing a dear brother and friend killed, just feet away from us,
seeing the congregation suffering, seeing what Susie went through,
that really took its toll on both of us.
And just to illustrate, Sue, for years had difficulty sleeping,
and I had difficulty too, but Susie even more so,
and she began to suffer from panic attacks.
She was always very relaxed on the platform, even at large gatherings,
but now she couldn't finish reading the text comments at the Field Service Group
without running out of breath.
In those days, that was the custom.
So I or another brother had to finish the reading.
Yes, Peter got used to me going, you finished.
Well, our hearts go out to you.
It must have been a very difficult time.
There was also, you said, a question you had to grapple with in your mind.
Yeah, sometimes, you know, people would say,
why would Jehovah allow such an atrocity to be perpetrated against the congregation of his people?
Well, it's not a bad question.
It's one that we need to answer, and how will you be able to work your way through that?
Well, Susie and I often tried to remind ourselves,
any impressive on our heart, that there are bigger issues here
than the preservation of our individual human lives.
There's Jehovah's sovereignty and his name,
and of course, the integrity of his worshipers,
and what are our motives for serving him?
And of course, as we know from the Bible,
Jehovah didn't promise that he would shield every one of us individually from physical harm.
In fact, Jesus even said that some of his followers would be persecuted and killed.
And besides that, our brothers die from horrible diseases,
others are killed or maimed in accidents or in natural disasters.
That's just life in this old system, isn't it?
And so, Jehovah helps us,
and we found the biggest way in which he helps us is by giving us comfort and encouragement,
mainly through our dear brothers and sisters,
and Jehovah did that abundantly with us, especially our family and our close friends.
And Sue, would you like to just give us a little bit from your side as well?
Yes, there was an absolute outpouring of support.
Some of our family traveled from the other side of the country,
and they were with us for the first couple of weeks right there in the hospital.
That was a real comfort.
And our spiritual family, brothers and sisters,
there were bouquets of flowers coming into the hospital.
There seemed to be an endless stream of cards and letters.
Some from brothers and sisters in other countries.
And you know, it was such a lovely weakness because quite a few of the nursing staff
would comment on all this, and they say, do you know all these people?
So we'd say, well, we don't know them, but they're our spiritual family, our brothers and sisters.
It was funny with the flowers.
You remember Peter was valiantly doing his man's job of caring for these flowers, trying to water them.
The bed was like a botanic garden surrounded by flowers.
So Pete's watering them, and one day I heard the nurse say to him, Peter,
I think you'll find that those flowers are watering a silk.
So we had a good laugh, but he was doing good.
That's probably why we don't have him working in the garden in the vessel.
That's what it is.
But you know, with the cards, the words, the well chosen words
that brothers and sisters wrote on those cards,
they touched our hearts.
And it was like, you know, they used the expression of warm blanket put over you.
It was like they were right there in that hospital ward with a saying, we're right there with you.
We're right behind you.
And that was a tremendous comfort.
But then sometimes you get, you know, the down days where you just feel totally depressed
and you're at the end of your tether.
And the spiritual food is so essential.
And that's what Jehovah provides.
It just gets you right out of yourself.
And so, okay, focus again.
I remember vividly one day, Peter brought it.
It was one of those down days.
And he had brought up the latest watchtower from Bethel.
And it had an article in it that he read to me about one of our precious brothers in Africa.
He had endured brutal physical persecution.
And when Peter finished the article, just thinking of that brother's integrity under those circumstances,
his loyalty to Jehovah, you know, it stops you focusing on yourself.
You say, look, stop focusing on yourself.
Look at what others are going through.
It inspires you.
You say, I want to be just like that.
I just printed out the last little part of that article.
Please, we'd love to hear it.
This is how the article finished.
What helped this loyal supporter of God's Kingdom to endure brutal treatment?
For three months, he was entirely on his own.
He fully expected to die.
And yet, when asked how he felt during this ordeal, his answer was,
I felt that Jehovah was with me all the time.
There were no complaints against his persecutors or lamenting over what had happened to him,
just firm conviction that Jehovah never forsakes his loyal servants.
Isn't that great?
That's inspiring.
I don't want to embarrass you both.
But those of us who work with you view you both as excellent examples of those that have a positive spirit,
a positive attitude.
Just how can you keep a positive attitude when you've been through such a horrific, traumatic event?
Yes, that's a good question.
I can honestly say, Jeff, that if Susie and I were to stew over the horrible thing that happened to our congregation,
it would be very easy to become bitter or even depressed.
But as Jehovah's people, we have so much going for us.
We have so much help.
We've got Jehovah's Word.
We've got Holy Spirit.
We've got a wonderful hope for the future.
And we've got loving brothers and sisters.
And we found that when you take full advantage of those precious gifts,
then Jehovah strengthens and comforts you and he helps you.
And I've seen that with Sue because when we go through trials and we take advantage of those gifts,
the trials actually mold us and refine us.
They don't harden us.
Many in the congregation, we've both seen, have been refined and molded by this experience.
And I've seen it with Sue.
I can honestly say that she's a more compassionate and understanding person as a result of what she's been through.
She didn't want me to say that, but I said it anyway.
I'm sure she'll forgive you.
And Sue?
Yes, we have tried to focus ahead.
And the reason is Jehovah tells us this is not the real life in his Word.
And Peter and I firmly believe that.
The real life is ahead.
And anything that happens to any of us in this old system, Jehovah can undo it 110% in the new world.
So we tried to leave things in Jehovah's hands as to how it works out and just focus on what's coming up.
And in that way, we've been able to put the bombing behind us and get on with life.
Yeah, that has helped to give us an inner peace.
Jehovah's hands are much bigger and much stronger than ours.
Well, those are some beautiful expressions.
Thank you both for being willing to express how you felt about those circumstances.
If you'd like to read the full account of their experience, it was published in the Awake magazine of January 8, 1992.
It's true that very few of us have had things like that happen to us.
But many of us have had to face a test while dealing with serious health problems.
Additionally, many different traumatic events can cause us to experience a form of post-traumatic stress.
Hasn't this interview shown us that even though someone's experience might be different from ours,
we can still learn some valuable lessons from listening to their stories.
Peter and Sue mentioned the hope they received from the brothers and sisters and what an impact that had on them.
While we as individuals have great love for the brotherhood, realistically though, we all have a tendency to focus on the imperfections of others.
How can we look beyond those imperfections and truly benefit from the faithful examples of those serving with us?
In this dramatization, notice how our brother identifies what he needs to work on and how he successfully aligned his thinking with God's.
I grew up in this congregation and for many years it felt like a loving family.
But lately, I struggled to feel the same enthusiasm.
And the elders, I struggled to understand them too.
Traffic is bad after work, but they probably think that I'm slacking.
They only notice their favorites, like Tulani.
He's got to be the slowest brother on mics.
And this couple, every week, they are on the platform.
Loving all the attention, I know this irritates his way too.
I don't know when I started feeling this way of my congregation.
But lately, I feel so disconnected from these people.
I have been giving Bible reading assignments since I was his age.
These are still the only assignments I get.
And with each passing month, I find myself feeling more and more unhappy in this congregation.
Why then do you look at the straw in your brother's eye, but do not notice the rafter in your own eye?
Or how can you say to your brother, allow me to remove the straw from your eye?
When look, a rafter is in your own eye.
Hypocrite.
First remove the rafter from your own eye.
And then you will see clearly how to remove the straw from your brother's eye.
Hmm, I wonder.
What did Jesus mean by that?
How could you fit a rafter in your eye?
And how would you see anything else?
How can someone with a rafter in his eye even try to remove a straw from someone else's eye?
Reading the Bible can be funny sometimes.
Jesus actually said,
Hippocrite.
First remove the rafter from your own eye.
Why did Jesus call this man a Hippocrite?
Perhaps he was so focused on the straws, the mistakes of others.
He did not see the bigger mistakes, the rafter in himself.
Hmm, but that made me think.
Am I a Hippocrite?
I want to enjoy my service.
I don't want to be negative or critical of my brothers.
But how do I fix it?
I prayed.
I asked Jehovah to forgive me.
I asked for humility too.
Then I went on and asked my boss if I could leave 30 minutes early so that I could do that Bible reading.
I was surprised when he said yes.
He even suggested that I could leave early every meeting night.
It was like Jehovah walked into his office before I did.
But when Brother Kumalo commanded me, even then I thought,
Is he being genuine?
That's when I realized.
I had to continue to remove the rafter from my eye.
I have to try to view the whole congregation the way Jehovah views them.
I hope to enjoy the new world with them one day.
Over the months, by becoming more helpful and less critical,
I feel more connected to my congregation.
Applying Bible principles helped me see the reality that it was my attitude that made me unhappy,
not the mistakes of my brothers.
All this time, the best way to change my congregation was to change myself.
Focusing on the positive qualities of those around us can certainly help us to maintain a positive viewpoint.
I'd like to encourage you to watch a morning worship program that is now available on video and demand.
It highlights who the princes of Isaiah 32-1 are both now and in the future.
Then provides a very positive message for our faithful sisters among us.
That morning worship program is with Brother Kenneth Flodin,
a helper to the teaching committee and is entitled,
A Hiding Place from the Wind.
While preparing for this program, I had the opportunity to ask many of those with whom I work
about the problems they've been facing and the scriptures that have helped them to maintain
a positive attitude despite adversity.
I was truly amazed at how encouraging their comments were.
Of course, we don't have enough time to interview all of them now,
but here are some of their comments.
For example, a single brother who is originally from Asia is the only member of his family who is a witness.
He left his family 33 years ago because of the physical and verbal abuse he was suffering.
Only recently was he able to visit his father and mother after over 30 years.
How can this brother remain positive?
He says that a traveling overseer hoped him remember the words of Psalm 27 verse 10.
That reads,
Even if my own father and mother abandoned me,
Johova himself will take me in.
A single sister here at Bethel, who in addition to caring for her Bethel duties,
has been hoping to care for her aged mother
and her recently lost her father and death, made this comment.
I learned from Dad that having the mental habit of finding reasons for thankfulness
helps me to keep focused on positive things to make the joy of Johova my stronghold, even in hard times.
What scripture has helped her?
It's 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and verse 18.
Give thanks for everything.
This is God's will for you in Christ Jesus.
And finally, a dear Bethel sister who is 97 years young told me that the scripture
that helps her remain positive no matter what comes her way is Psalm 27 verse 14.
Hope in Johova be courageous and strong of heart.
Yes, hope in Johova.
In addition to all these fine reminders,
I'm sure that we all appreciate the beautiful music that has been prepared for us.
I just love the music videos that have been prepared for the monthly programs of JW Broadcasting.
They're always so positive and upbeat.
Even if you're feeling a little down, you can't help but smile and start humming when you hear these songs.
And this month is no exception.
We have yet another music video for you.
This one is called Imagine the Time.
There's not an egg you for this new touch my eyes grow dim with pesse.
Of course, this is a very special month for all of us.
It's the month when we gather together to remember the death of our Lord Jesus Christ.
All of us are very busy now preparing for that event.
There are so many things to do.
We're inviting as many as possible to join us this year.
Some brothers are putting the finishing touches on their talks.
Others are making sure that all the arrangements are in place.
But just imagine that this year you are asked to prepare the bread for the memorial.
How should you do that?
What is involved in making sure that the right type of bread is used?
Watch carefully as we outline the steps involved.
There was something I always remembered watching my mother's hands.
As she carefully prepared the bread for the memorial of Christ's death,
she took it very seriously because of a special meaning on the night before his death.
Jesus told his disciples,
this bread means my body.
After the bread and wine were passed around,
Jesus said to them,
keep doing this and remembrance of me.
To this day, that's what we do.
Shari, can you bring me the flower, please?
Thank you.
It was a simple mixture, really.
Do you remember what comes next?
Water?
That is right.
Can you ever add anything else?
No, it is very important that the bread is made in the same way as it was in Jesus' day.
Just wheat, flour and water.
That is all.
But what if people do not have wheat flour?
Well, the bread can still be made with flour made from rice, barley, corn or a similar grain.
But nothing should be added besides the flour and the water.
No yeast.
Not even salt.
Remember what Jesus said in Luke 1610?
The person faithful in what is least is faithful also in, in much.
That is right.
And we want to be faithful to Jehovah in all things.
Right?
After mixing, she would need the dough and the dust would rise and fall as she worked.
Then she would let me roll it out.
Then it would be placed on a lightly oiled pan for baking.
When it was done, it didn't look like the kind of bread you would night typically see.
It was rather plain looking, dry and cracker-like.
It easily broke apart.
It was perfect.
And we proudly brought it to the Kingdom Hall for the observance.
Happily remember those moments as I now prepare the bread for the memorial this year.
But even more importantly, when I think of what Jesus did for each of us,
it is a wonderful privilege to have a small contribution on this most important night of the year.
That was very hopeful, wasn't it?
Well, what an exciting month we have ahead of us.
We look forward to unitedly joining together worldwide on Wednesday evening, March 23,
to commemorate the death of our Lord Jesus and to remember the love that Jehovah showed us
by providing His Son as a ransom sacrifice.
On behalf of all of the governing body, we wish you Jehovah's rich blessing during this memorial season.
As we come to the conclusion of our program, we have some special greetings from our brothers and sisters
in the southern part of Ethiopia.
This area is called Arba Minch, meaning 40 streams.
The four congregations, and close to 200 publishers in this area,
have a vast territory of about 200,000 inhabitants.
One kingdom hole in the area, especially designed with one side that opens up
so that it can be used for circuit assemblies.
Because of limited internet access, some of the local pioneers are taking the lead
and downloading the latest Caleb and Sophia videos for the enjoyment of many in the congregation.
They also get together to watch the monthly JW broadcasting program.
As is the case in congregations all over the world,
the brothers and Arba Minch make sure to help older ones to get to the meetings
while also training younger ones to serve the congregation.
These fine kingdom publishers also make a special effort to reach unassigned territory,
sometimes walking long distances.
We are certain that Jehovah deeply appreciates their hard work in caring for kingdom interest,
just as he does for all of you wherever you are.
This is JW Broadcasting from World Headquarters in Brooklyn, New York.